welcome to GUI and in web browsers I
weekly call when we shall go in web
browser stuff and it's 17 of July I
think and we have an agenda and we have
a person read yeah yeah welcome to the
Kohl top of the agenda is seamless
experience around port 8080 or 5001
being taken so port 8080 being the
gateway pool by default by business and
port 5000 among being the API ripe or by
default you know IP advanced umm Lydell
you added this vision that you care to
get it unpack it a bit further usually
added yeah adding more to a gender right
now no I'm just press the wrong button
yep so the story behind this is that we
will I give us note start be that coati
FS or IP first desktop it tries to open
gateway port which is 8080 and API port
which is 5001 and the problem is that 88
is very popular port and especially if
the person is a developer there's a very
high chance the party's already taken by
something else some HCP server it's
unfortunate but that's like a default
port for gateway the problem is that
sort of impacts the onboarding of new
users when a person wants to try a TFS
right now it's high probability that
person is so developer that means there
is high probability of port 8080 being
taken and that person's installs ipfs
quite give us already first desktop they
start and the first experience is all it
crashed it says forties taken and
usually the message is
so the idea is we should optimize this
golden path at least for users of ipfs
desktop I think there's a fair
assumption we should not introduce any
magic for a go idea files however people
who install ipfs desktop there's an an
expectation that the desktop application
will just work and do the right thing
from a two step back a little bit what
you're just saying in the intro like
roughly speaking eruption today are we
are several years into this endeavor and
we've been using port 8080 the whole
time which has been a source of
frustration for a set of developers to
use port 8080 for popular web servers or
any other service that happens to have
lazily chosen port 8080 mm-hmm so if we
were to change our default port now we
would cause a lot of surprise for our
existing users versus improving the new
user experience for new users by picking
a more sensible default port and then
this problem of like we can choose
random ports but then we have lots of
code elsewhere as a is doing best effort
heuristics to be like I'm gonna check
port 5001 for HTTP api and changing that
were relying more heavily on a random
port would make that process harder is
that these are the trade-offs that I'm
seeing right now yes so mainly we don't
want to change defaults because
for most of users that if it will work
fine however if the port is already
taken
we should optimize that path because it
leads to frustration like we should
avoid situation when someone tries to
use ipfs and the first welcome screen is
the for cystic there might be a
reasonable proposal to say like okay all
this bother find like we pick one that
isn't on the table of is it Keanu high
and hey like they were just a what's the
popular use cases and perhaps we should
pick a different one and apply and use
it and have a migration period that's
also uh moral I cannot meet them
solution I feel like that's the boring
like this we should probably play play
this game properly now yeah that's very
true so that's the question should we
either way even if we switch to two
unique port there will be still a
situation when someone has already
something chronic there it will be rare
but so I think my point is we should for
the GUI apps such as IP first desktop it
should be seamless for user and there's
the path for checking if the thing that
is listening on the port is actually
ipfs so we don't have any like technical
blockers from figuring adding some
simple heuristics to tell if the port is
ipfs or not and if it's taken picking
another one you could second by
something else picking something secret
I really like them the midterm solution
was ultimately changing the port to be
something that 98 thousand other
developer tools don't use but I think
one of the frustrations that developers
have - is that even if we get there
first it's a port race and then there
other tools break so our part that's
great that we got the port but then
there other workflows I professed as a
pain for that so the question that I
like to ask around things like this is
what if we added 1 million to 5 million
new developers who are using ipfs we
still think 8080 is the right thing or
let's say we only out of the hundred
thousand I profess developer so we still
think it'd be 80 he's right and from
that understanding a word growth is
going to come from if we continue
winning then maybe we want to have
something that will set us up for a long
term and play nicely with all the only
tools I understand that's not a
short-term solution sort of sort of
related to that is a concept of
familiarity right now we know that like
8080 it's a gateway wrench in jeaious
world
it's like 1990 it's bit better and the
API part in some separate namespace
which is like 5,000 something so at
least there's like a visual indicator
which is which and I think I finally can
show you what I wanted to show you
before I think is that right now I have
go i PF s running on 5,000 won and if I
switch to embedded node by default it
will listen on 5003 but I can like
hard-coded to try to use the same port
go IKEA faceted which is 5,000 won
and what happened before
behind-the-scenes companion detected
that the part is already taken and it
just picked the next one from the same
range this is how we want the experience
of browser extension to work there
should be no like errors it should just
automatically pick the freeport so yeah
I'm really down with picking a random
pool in the link on where we find that
the false port is unavailable I think my
thinking was coming from as a web app
there's no good way for me to discover a
local IPS API running on the system
yep and as it stands our recommended
path for that is to use a companion
window type EFS has caveats but the the
path is like have a randoms web app have
direct access to your yeah it's still
pretty ropey it's just a terrible
security model it's terrible UX model so
I'm kind of okay with like a friend of
ports I think if you install desktop
today and the options are like crash or
install successfully but you are now
running things on different ports I
think we probably need to go for running
things on random ports not crash but we
need to highlight to the user that your
setup is not the same as everyone else's
so certain certain things might not work
as expected you will have to go and
configure companion whereas another user
won't have to configure companion
brothers drop it in and it will work out
of the box I guess it's all the best we
can do right now is be robust and
signpost people to the ramifications of
that difference that make them both
like right now companion and Justins if
you're not only on a table just work out
the box that's great and if they stop
put things that run importance there's
no way to companion to know that yes so
it's like it's a topic of local
discovery in general this is a very
generic problem of ipfs nodes or tools
that want to use ipfs nodes discovering
where the note is yeah there are tools
like if you're writing a tool that has
system API is like we could discover
things on mdns but alas companion is not
one of those and that's I guess the
thing that we care about most at this
point is like from a GUI I could ask GUI
perspective is like desktop works out of
the box companion works out the box and
you have a good experience when you read
the documentation the things that it
tells you to run work for you so imagine
there are places all over the
documentation where we're like try
localhost:8080 to get to your gateway
and it's like what if we picked a random
port that documentation is now broken
for you're suspected for like for
companion companies sort of like an easy
easy case because we control both ipfs
companion and IP has desktop so we can
figure it out a protocol where like
desktop opens the page and companion
takes that as a hint however we should
think about like third-party developers
yeah don't have that privilege and
that's like sort of I think it's rather
than specific to API port like specific
reports it's more about local discovery
and the problem of having multiple nodes
on single machine it's like at some
abstraction level it collapses into a
single problem if you have like multiple
nodes or if you have multiple tools that
wants to talk to a single node it's just
a matter of the local discovery not
being there he's saying if you if you
stand on a tool building everyone looks
like a mess yes
[Music]
I yes although I'd be wary of that level
of abstraction can make it hard to fix
anything
yeah there is the ongoing discussion of
like what does a cluster of discovered
local nodes on one machine you look like
like how would that process function
that would be super cool feel like there
are smaller battles to fight between
here and there I think I think the
problem resides in like web pages and
web extensions talking to a demon that
has assigned itself random ports I think
I think there is a path for local
tooling to discover if we can we I need
to double check with the mdns story but
the theory goes like if I'm running a
tool that has like direct access to it
its own IP this binary or direct
ancestors system where it can do em DNS
queries then it can discover a local API
that is on a long time and poor mmm I
think and yeah it would be useful to
have Hugo cuz I'm pretty sure he sort of
solve that for for IP NS in web browser
prototype and and the idea was to
announce like DNS using DNS discovery
service to announce like ipfs I KN s
local web service and that service like
act as a bridge everyone talks to that
service as a rendezvous point and you
are always sort of you know that if that
service is there you will get the idea
first note I just realized a big
flamboyantly saying hello is referring
to the bunch of protocol
yeah nothing okay yeah so that's
basically we think well what would you
say our actions our footage topic I'd
say the first thing is to figure it out
ports and registering them as our ports
and if we have like a TT yeah like if we
have this new canonical port week can
like make our tools to check for old
default port and new default port and
that would like solve most of edge cases
and then I think we've already sort of
discussed this with Henrik about like
making a key first desktop more gentle
on users when port is taken like
figuring out if the thing that is
listening on a port is a TFS or not and
then telling user that the port the
default port is taken and do you and do
you want to start a BFS on a different
port or do you want to quit and figure
it out on your own I think that's like
the safe default that would both make
less technical and more technical users
happy we had a related request the other
day on the issue tracker for let me so I
started using desktop and I realized
that I'm using IPS a lot it's taking a
pull up storage space on my main drive
can i rehome it can desktop be like move
my ipfs home to this external drive the
actual request was like ask me up front
where I want to store things and so then
there's two possible solutions it's like
have a kind of we had this in desktop
previous version that there was a step
during install that asked you a bunch of
questions and to streamline things we
removed it but that's for simplicity we
have traded off
some user understanding or certainly I
would quite like it if it was easy to
get started didn't ask me these
questions and then allow desktop to read
to move and ipfs home directory that'll
be pretty good I think like it's sort of
support it's right now you just said
ipfs home or I give us power viable so
there's the UX is missing right what I'm
saying is you start as a new user you
start using opulence desktop and it puts
a bunch of the whole flock blocks into a
block store in your home directory and
to have a button in desktop that's like
I would like to move this not like I
want to forget my old identity and
create anyone with nothing in that's a
little bit maybe not tricky it would be
like wrists require a rest out of go IP
offense but like desktop use on top of
that should be possible posible cool
24 minutes and that's one one item of
the agenda should we tick yep all right
next up is how do you handle subdomain
gateway on localhost this one is sort of
long so I'll try to be very brief
what's a subdomain gateway yeah so
subdomain gateway is when you put a
Content ID in the sub domain instead of
the path of your URL I can I think I can
like show quickly maybe faster so this
is a media loaded from subdomain gateway
provided by CloudFlare there is a
content identifier in the very beginning
it's a cid v1 in base 52 and there's
there's a short domain name which has
like the name of namespace and there's
like actual domain and there's a path
under that cid so the way this works
you can use any gateway with the same
subdomain here so the CID is in the is
in the subdomain not the path yeah
that's a short story and the thing is
like it's easy to reason about when we
have an actual domain what happens on
local machine when you've installed ipfs
you run local gateway it's possible to
have subdomains and the local host host
name and however we don't want to have
both some domain based and path based
gateways on the same host name I feel we
should pause there it was news to me
that you could have subdomains on
localhost yeah so I think because the
the user experience that you're trying
to get to is like we wanted to move the
ecosystem towards putting the subdomain
putting the cid in the subdomain because
that gets us browse the browser's normal
origin sandbox then makes sense again
whereas see IDs in the path means that
every body's content in a co-hosted
environment everybody's context is
everybody's content is in the same
sandbox so has influence over the root
domain bad times now and if we can move
the ecosystem like a fatigue resistant
towards putting the cid in the subdomain
hooray
we're playing nicely with browser based
origin sandbox again but do we also have
this problem of we want links to be able
to be resolved to your local your local
IP fest gateway if you're running one
and also have sensible fallbacks to be
able to get a remote HTTP gateway if
you're not running on local ones it's a
challenge it's a challenge and the
a lot of quirky stuff around localhost
in the way web browsers handle that the
main problem is we only have one host
name for like actual host name is
localhost so if we want to use
subdomains we need to use that and we
cannot use localhost for path based
gateway so this is because you don't
want to host the subdomain version see
IDs in the subdomain and see IDs in the
path on the same gateway oh yeah on the
same domain yeah so they are on the same
origin right origin is like host name
plus port the class protocol um it's
interesting to unpack that a little bit
like you're feeling is it's a security
hazard so say here's the secure way of
getting content from this gateway and if
we were to also support path based see
IDs then would be saying but it is also
the insecure way it's like I would not
say secure and insecure it's just a
matter of when you want origin isolate
like when you want to isolate stuff and
when you don't care about that type of
isolation so if you load web sites from
ipfs you care about origin based
isolation because web sites then can use
local storage cookies and they cannot
edit each other's cookies storage and
stuff the thing is that on the localhost
when we run the gateway we we don't want
to expose both on the same name because
the gateway which is using ours will
have access to all the cookies of all
subdomains that's how like isolation
works because the path will be on the
root domain and that root domains have
access to everything that is right for
localhost
the only thing I sort of see as a path
to move forward is to detect leg on the
our gateway should detect requests to
localhost name without any subdomain and
then redirect that to just IP and that's
sort of a trick because the IP is
interpreted as a different host name and
that way the origin sandbox created by
web browser will be separate and then we
have we can have both sub domain based
gateway and path based gateway on the
local host machine is it fair to say
that path based gateways that we have
today would essentially be legacy like
this there isn't a good reason to use it
we would want to migrate people to
subdomain based gateways because they're
just there they just have this security
flaw that we can't work around yeah it's
like borrowing pushing forward work on
sub origin specification yeah music
which is a good protocol labs all the
ocean kind of strategy yeah so it's like
the matter of what are you using ideas
for generally the sub domain base
gateway can be used for everything at
and solves those problems that we had
with the path of based one but I believe
a lot of people will still want to
continue using that mostly because they
don't want to change all the setups they
have they often put ipfs behind nginx
and then use the path based addressing
on our gateway like the main gateway at
EFSA oh I believe we will want to at
some point just redirect everyone to the
sub domain based one at the DNS link but
for this transitional period and also as
an option for people who care about just
having half addressing without
and manipulation we still need to
support the tough ones and there's like
a discussion between me and Steven on
the PR on go IDF s repo and we want to
add support for like native support for
sub-domain gateways to go ipfs right now
if people want to run their subdomain
gateway they need to add some additional
code at the nginx level which sits in
front of Goa Kiev s what we want to do
is to make super simple for people to
host their own gateways with some domain
support so you just run go ipfs if you
choose to do so without any nginx in
front of it and it should just work but
it's not like we will deprecated path
gateways if that's the question so
literally what I just wrote in the notes
but I'm teacher so my understanding was
that the end goal was to deprecated path
based addressing because I guess I guess
deprecated is is a strong word in this
case because permanent weapon links and
Link rot but if if there are no
drawbacks to releasing new versions of
go activists that redirect slash IP FS
slash cid
to a subdomain that starts just to solve
the problem over time until eventually
everyone's running out a specific I
guess would we ever do that in an idea
best iron could you foresee a time when
we upgrade the gateways for IP Avesta I
owe such that they redirect requests
when I see ideas in the past you have
the CID in the subdomain I don't believe
we will support subdomain gateway at the
ITF sio domain that we have like we want
to leave this domain just for the
project that's like sort of separate
separate of the I'm always think about
the festival is like
of the upgrade kind of the web kind of
it's the it's the address you can share
today that has graceful fullback
oh I mean like the way it will work if
you share the old-school IDF si o / IDF
is something that from desire that will
redirect 2d web link mm-hmm but we we
could support like subdomains on IDF SEO
but those would redirect to do web link
that's a separate problem we just want
to move away from ipfs io the problem is
if we share the same domain of the
length of the project itself with the
gate default gateway then or if some
content is shared through the Gateway
the takedown notices or like DNS blocks
for the Gateway impact our project page
which is not good
Deitrick and healer questions I guess I
wanted to share my concern that anywhere
that we allow path based address you
need to remain permanently for a new
content is a place where people who want
to do things like session hijacking and
exploits is just a big open well-known
open door that welcome mat so I guess
that's why in as much as I understand
the compatibility concerns and I'm glad
there are some of the options for
handling that I really do feel it's
important that the understood goal is to
not support path based addressing as
long as there is no way to mitigate the
security issue
oh like totally and the plan eventually
hit like hacker news level slammed this
yeah and actually we sort of already
started planning her around that and the
idea is that it will be like a switch
that you are not able to have both on on
localhost IP you are not able to have
both subdomain and pop address the
Gateway and if you make a request
like half addressed requests it will be
redirected that will be like HTTP 301 to
the sub domain so that way links will
not be broken but you won't be able to
abuse that the question read something
that we want to add to our HTTP servers
or leave to the users nginx set up the
end goal is to have that logic in our or
go up here passengers IP has gateways so
that just like Dietrich said the surface
form is configuration should be like
removed and that by default we should
default to the subdomains and that that
would be like the tyranny or the default
right yeah there's definitely like
different user stories here where we
were talking a lot about the one where
another user wants to stand up a public
multi-tenant ipfs gateway but what what
tends to keep surfacing is that most
people want to run an app or community
or single use cases justices gave way
and also better schooling around I just
want to I don't want people to be able
to request any CID through my HTTP game
I want to be able to present a bunch of
blocks that are predefined like have a
whitelist of see IDs that's my gateway
will provide like that's a whole other
side of this to just trying to like keep
every single thing as it was there's
probably not as important as figuring
out what the major use cases are but it
sounds like redirecting path see IDs to
subcommittee IDs is a huge win and we
should just that should be a feature
that we were all out as soon as we can
and big big gold star for idols
multi-month multi-year effort to get
basically TC ids the wonky ID
if he wrote one and all actually spin on
that got 20 minutes any other thoughts I
just have a quick thing to show ya just
a quick plug about immigration to see it
if you want there's a an issue in ipfs
ipfs and in the very first comment
created by kyle there's a link to a big
bird's eye view which I sort of went
over recently and updated a little bit
so you can see all the PRS and issues
related to the effort there's of course
I think more than that however it's like
a good entry point if you want to see
where we are
I'd be right wing cleaners yep I try to
update it once a while so it might fall
a little bit behind ongoing work but
generally it's a good place to start
you
if else that otherwise we're going to
mention quickly removing special cases
and hacks around web UI so ofs team is
talking about releasing more more
regular release cycle but at the minute
that is blocked on a longer really focal
while we get our testing story to be
more robust but if in the general
direction of momentum there is release
more and more predictable frequency in
the meantime in many months leading up
to that Riedel and I have slowly been
adding hacks to places and rolling out
newer versions of the web UI in in ways
in the ways we could so this is the most
obvious one is the open web UI button in
companion will open a CID a version of
web UI that if it's gonna if it used to
bundle it and now it just redirects to
delicious the IDE but it has to do some
tricks to make that work so in go ipfs
there is just a list of blessed see IDs
that can be load info that it can be
loaded by the api port which means they
have unrestricted access to the API and
that list of see IDs is all the released
versions of web UI no other web app gets
that blessing and but this makes it
means that we can only release new
versions of UI by PR Ingo ipfs and
waiting for their next release so in the
meantime Lydell came up with the trick
that was like because the api off is
just just relies on cause if you don't
send the origin header if have companion
has the power to do this remove origin
headers and companion and allow blessed
a new earthy ide so it can allow new
releases of web UI and we did this for a
good reason
like there was a long gap in going penis
releases and we discovered some pretty
critical bugs in webview I needed to get
the fixes out but we are now seeing that
that is causing other issues Oh
so the proposal is to remove this
workaround so I have companion simplify
things so that it doesn't have its own
internal blessed list of CI DS it just
defers to port 5000 one slash web B Y
and that will get you the version of web
UI that go out if it's shipped with even
if that's a bit old and then as an
extension to that idea to get back to
this feeling of most people should use
the stable version but some people may
want to use the more fleeting edge
version of web UI to include in go ipfs
is blessed list of addresses an IP NS
address for open-air slash web UI DFS
tayo and then have a toggle in companion
that lets you say I would like to when I
say open web UI from the companion
drop-down I would like to use the stable
version which is whatever your god is s
or Jessica's s says but if you flip to
give me the bleeding edge then it will
open up to the IPS link to web be wise
doctor the style question conclude about
that you physically don't actually ship
whether Y inside desktop yet so desktop
is a separate separate concerned but
yeah we had a couple of conversations
already a good way that we can like a
great way box to use the local demon
would be to find a way to connect the
browser and the local daemon the local
even being the the best of us
and one of the way would be something
like that instead of like shipping with
where you buy inside just about the open
[Music]
web UI in the browser and when you
basically ask ask the browser to load
the web UI you kinda you have a way to
send some information then you can kind
of sync the configuration instead of
relying on predefined source and I even
just the thought we is being discussed a
couple of times um so right now desktop
bundles a release of web UI essentially
just for first first usage performance I
can few up in the desktop app and then
you're like please wait while I go and
fetch the web dy from ipfs there's I
mean there's the ongoing question of my
desktop could actually just be the drop
down menu and have it when you click
files it just opens a browser and then
you could have a query string parameter
tells you what API put to use happen yes
that I think right now that pile of
logic and bundling isn't causing us any
problems so what with what we're seeing
today is the companion' having its own
list of blessed see IDs is running afoul
of it'll load a version of web UI that
go ipfs hasn't blessed and it strips the
origin headers and fat then I'm sure
what I can't remember the exact like
joining the dots that we sorted problem
I saw today was I'd added some cause
config to my goai PFS and then I did a
fresh install of companion and open web
UI I couldn't connect
to my desk demons because the act of
adding cause config to go ipfs also
triggers some latent additional
additional baiting checks that maybe my
dog can speak to oh yeah it's just aside
the additional context is that apart
from regular course that everyone knows
on is happening on the web go ipfs has
some additional hardening when you
request from the different origin that
the local host different origin than the
api port on localhost so it's like
hardened chorus which even if we true
trick use this trick of removal or
origin header still the code that is on
the go idea fest side will return
forbidden HTTP error it's a very low
level the the gist is that go idea fest
goes extra mile on top of course and
it's just a losing battle to try to work
around and build additional layers and
keep the like multiple lists of blessed
where do I when we can just agree that
now that go ipfs will have regular
releases and web UI recycle slowed down
and we are sort of like stable right now
it should be fine to just delegate web
UI loading to go ipfs
you didn't any questions on that one oh
good next what are we go surfacing
protocol on IQ tests and guess ipfs done
first was like part of this ipfs stocks
task force this quarter and one of the
things I've been working on is making
sure that anywhere we're teaching about
IP FST's in Doc's whether that's website
or github API documentation whatever and
there is relevant photos full context
content that we're linking to it so I've
put in a bunch of issues some a bunch of
them ellen has been kind enough to merge
for me already in github spots but I
wanted to just run by people some ideas
for how we would surface it better on
the actual websites and I'm very open to
suggestions here so I'm the main ipfs
website once that I see that might work
naturally is here where we're offering
options for a deeper look at IP FS maybe
there was a second button that's a
explore proto school tutorials I think
of I mean I don't think I'm gonna pull
any traffic from the white paper because
I think of these as different it's this
you care about these things but that's
one plot just with the way things are
set up right now it's not protocol it's
not really an implementation they're an
app the footer seems super crowded I
don't know if people have other if they
like that button idea yeah yes I think
beefing up that section at the bottom of
the footer that they like okay you if
you like white papers here it is if you
want documentation go here if you want
tutorials go to protists cool I think
that seems like a good intersect butter
or did you mean no I thought that beef
up that section yeah
yeah definitely not the footer okay
shall I just add the protocol button or
was there something else you're
suggesting because I kind of like that
like if you're very catechol you're like
this white paper if your regular dev you
might like the docs if you like
tutorials for a school like the three
three offerings it seems good
all right any other ideas on standard
ipfs do so Jae sik Festa IO I do it's
not accepted yet but I put in a TR so
that when you go when if you click
tutorials protocol tutorials will be
listed alongside the ones so just kind
of live in a repo there that you have to
download anything explained then you're
not gonna have to download them my other
thought was this getting started where
it says try it out below could say try
to blue or check out our tutorials on
proto school with just a link text know
that we have other kind of natural spots
already just people have ideas the those
tutorials seems to form out in a find
out more so there I'd be like probably
replace that was a big okay oh yeah this
is going to the tutorials again the same
place blanket number house do you think
we should be replacing it or just
offering a option yeah that's a pretty
dead page it seems like it would survive
hey hey you should also know if you like
the protocol head for might specific
well salsa Jessica Jessica learn some
fun things a bit dead on it's going on
that page and it's a section that's
slightly more rich and live like you
probably want protocol
okay and then again at the bottom I
think there was another session like
here just up a bit I've been in it like
what can you build and then below that
it's like oh this poor thing
this is this you know but what's the
thing called is this built off of one of
those very good I think it's going to be
yeah yeah this one all right I shall
attempt and that's for hope if I can't
figure out where stuff happens this but
I leave to that issue in the notes of
people have other ideas let me know and
you may see more random PRS coming in
and various ipfs repos as I try to
update documentation so feel free to use
your powers to approve my suggestions
there is one more item on the agenda we
need a KO we need a key result I am
desktop ok we can see through eg we keep
shipping it fixing highest priority
stuff but not low priority for irony
retinas check stop you web UI are stable
usable eg we're not regressing them as
we shipped you stuff this quarter sort
of I would on top of like keep keeping
shipping it like thinks that like the
discussion about remove removal of web
UI all the overhead all the hugs and
unnecessary optimizations so like part
of maintaining heat and would be removal
of of standards over complicated I would
like to
primary somehow in the key our who added
this to the agenda that would be me like
reducing complexity of our GUI apps and
things like that or like maintenance
burden the maintenance burden I think
that's what we want to do with web UI
for example I would encourage you to add
the wording that you would like to that
kr this this group is in control of your
destiny with regards to how we continue
working on and shipping these things but
which which team is looking after it
right now is the make sure that they're
still shipping and not regressing just
has my name on it next in the project
operations Brett oh so I would love your
assistance in writing vkr that meets
your needs best isn't it okay well so
this this discussion is around
we've moved focus to things like making
sure we do a good job of the sausage
managers endeavor so fixing the per
fishes and having the features we need
to support exchanges and do a good job
of running the activist gateway and
empowering others to run high reliable
gateway firms so that has bumps down the
amount of time and energy that we will
have to work on desktop and the joy over
the next three to six months but we
haven't checked in with Henrique about
what he would like to focus on over the
next three to six months so it may be
that and really focusing on desktop but
that is a conversation for perhaps now
but it's worth noting this
that my still and Enrico so curcumin do
you want me to check in with that care
with that directed at me oh no I don't
really know who you are but uh I'm
getting a little better I knew you come
here regularly move them here this is
really to the whole group right like I
mean this is after that we need to focus
on docs and performance instability
services are up and but we everybody
acknowledges that there are dependencies
still on things like like web UI and
desktop and there are really strong
dependencies on on working and not not
progressing and making sure this is so
functional from the brave work that I
hope to so it's not that there is one of
those situations where we need to make
sure that it continues to work as well
as it does things but the benefit of
less overhead means we get to do things
like features so it is great to capture
in that to make sure it's also important
to note that both in Reese and Justin
are working on cool new features for web
UI so it's worth us it's worth making
sure that we have like if there are
things that we do want to achieve over
the next three to six months that we are
clear about what is in what's on our
flight path and then also to wonderful
community members I definitely like oh
yes don't worry we're not gonna like
trample all over the work you're doing
it's that stuff that you were interested
in like that's plenty of room for that
there's exactly why I want to capture
it's not you know they they were using
the word maintenance and stuff like that
and like that's not really the correct
characterization because not only do we
have contributions continuing we also
have real ships dependencies that we
the one piece of work is so sweetly done
it could go through the best weather
issues on what your own death thought
and just give them like a triage in the
sense of if we can say like that's a
high priority but when you know Help
Wanted this one doesn't make any sense
because now and this one is stuff that
we're still planning to do in the next
three months so that we can reduce how
many how much time with them that we
throw at it so we can at least leave it
in a state where interested parties
concede war is what would be really
useful to work on if they've got free
time and versus like what unknown issues
that aren't gonna get fix anytime soon
we're at the hour mark does anyone have
any any burning think desires that they
want to talk about any hopes and dreams
all the time all the time just an if you
want to talk at all about the identical
stuff I can I can stay on the line for a
minute
sure did you want to talk about that
right now we can basically I resubmit
that PR we're gonna add identicards to
the peer table so when you have a CID
for a peer right next to it you'll see a
little identic on that's unique to every
your ID so it makes it easier to
identify peers that are being used as
relays and things like that it's super
cool um thank you for rebasing that I
will take a look tomorrow
um thanks King and wreak your piece of
work is so large and wild then maybe we
should devote a little bit of time to it
next week it'd be nice to put that on
the agenda for next week's call but it's
the headlines the teaser for Enriquez
demo next week here in the current
format webui is focused around
visualizing the files that are in your
NFS your mutant file systems view of
your IP of s repo which is just a tiny
sliver of what can possibly be in there
anything that you buy PFF tab doesn't
show up yep
don't necessarily show up unless they
and Rhys
taken this idea and run with it so
rethinking this file browser so that it
can not only show like arbitrary ipfs
addresses so today if you faced it might
be a pet address into the Explorer bar
at the top opens in the IP of the
Explorer and shows you the underlying
data model which is fun but way too
low-level as a starting point like if I
have an idea distressed chances are one
of CSS content as the IP of Ithaca so
he's he's done a large PR that like
changes the focus to be more to be more
flexible so that you can like average
content you can visualize your pins
which it's gonna be round it's so clear
tuned in this case so the great web GUI
and in and then it's all she wrote if
there is any more business you have one
last second interject otherwise let's
goodbye for me
you could buy from all of you this has
been the ipfs in web browsers and GUI T
weekly call see you next week